h1. About the HMM Aligner

This is the code for an HMM word alignment system for statistical machine 
translation.  It was used for experiments described in:

"Lopez, A. and Resnik, P.  Improved HMM Alignment Models for Languages with Scarce Resources.  ACL Workshop on Parallel Text, 2005.":http://acl.ldc.upenn.edu/W/W05/W05-0812.pdf

The code is here for archival purposes. I haven't used it in quite a while 
and I do not support it or answer questions about it. Though not heavily 
documented, I believe it's reasonably easy to understand. If you are looking
at the code because you want to understand the HMM alignment algorithm, I 
highly recommend that you implement it yourself. As a starting point, 
you could follow "these instructions":http://alopez.github.io/dreamt/challenge1.html .

I'm distributing this code under terms of an MIT/X11 license (below).  
You're free to do whatever you want with it.  However, I request that any 
academic publications resulting from its use please cite the above paper.

h1. License

Copyright (c) 2004-2005 Adam Lopez 

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

